# BInputServerMethod

{cpp:class}`BInputServerMethod` is a base class for input methods; these
are instances of {cpp:class}`BInputServerMethod` that act as an interface
between the user and languages using character sets that can't be easily
represented on standard keyboards, such as the Japanese input method that
comes with BeOS.

Input methods generally handle {cpp:enum}`B_KEY_DOWN` messages in their
{cpp:func}`~BInputServerFilter::Filter` function (see
{cpp:class}`BInputServerFilter`), keeping some sort of state around to
translate these standard keyboard messages into new {cpp:enum}`B_KEY_DOWN`
messages representing another character set. An input method can handle any
input event, they're not limited to keyboard events.

:::{admonition} Warning
:class: warning
Writing an input method is an involved process, even though the
{hclass}`BInputServerMethod` protocol is relatively simple. If you're
working on an input method, please feel free to contact Be Developer
Technical Support (devsupport@be.com) for additional information.
:::

## Input Method Events

Input methods insert {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_EVENT` messages (using
their {cpp:func}`~BInputServerMethod::EnqueueMessage` function) into the
Input Server's event stream. These messages let {cpp:class}`BView`
subclasses work together with your input method to create a seamless
experience for the user.

Each {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_EVENT` message contains a be:opcode field
(an {htype}`int32` value) indicating the kind of event:

:::{list-table}
---
header-rows: 1
align: left
widths: auto
---
-

	- Constant

	- Description

-

	- {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_STARTED`

	- Indicates that a new input transaction has begun. Add a
{cpp:class}`BMessenger` in the be:reply_to field; the receiver of the
message will use this messenger to communicate with you during the
transaction.

-

	- {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_STOPPED`

	- Indicates that the transaction is over.
:::

In between the {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_STARTED` and
{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_STOPPED` messages, you'll send
{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_CHANGED` and
{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_LOCATION_REQUEST` messages as the transaction
proceeds.

{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_CHANGED` does most of the work in an input
transaction; add the following important fields:

:::{list-table}
---
header-rows: 1
align: left
widths: auto
---
-

	- Entry

	- Type

	- Description

-

	- be:string

	- {cpp:enum}`B_STRING_TYPE`

	- The text the user is currently entering; the receiver will display it at
the current insertion point. {cpp:class}`BTextView` also highlights the
text in blue to show that it's part of a transitory transaction.

-

	- be:selection

	- {cpp:enum}`B_INT32_TYPE`

	- A pair of B_INT32_TYPE offsets into the be:string if part of be:string is
current selected. {cpp:class}`BTextView` highlights this selection in red
instead of drawing it in blue.

-

	- be:clause_start

	- {cpp:enum}`B_INT32_TYPE`

	- Zero or more offsets into the be:string for handling languages (such as
Japanese) that separate a sentence or phrase into numerous clauses. An
equal number of be:clause_start and be:clause_end pairs delimit these
clauses; {cpp:class}`BTextView` separates the blue/red highlighting
wherever there is a clause boundary.

-

	- be:clause_end

	- {cpp:enum}`B_INT32_TYPE`

	- Zero or more offsets into be:string; there must be as many be:clause_end
entries as there are be:clause_start.

-

	- be:confirmed

	- {cpp:enum}`B_BOOL_TYPE`

	- True when the user has entered and "confirmed" the current string and
wishes to end the transaction. {cpp:class}`BTextView` unhighlights the
blue/red text and waits for a {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_STOPPED` (to close
the transaction) or another {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_CHANGED` (to start a
new transaction immediately).
:::

{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_LOCATION_REQUEST` is the input method's way of
asking for the on-screen location of each character in be:string. This
information can be used by the input method to pop up additional windows
giving the user an opportunity to select characters from a list or anything
else that makes sense. When you send a
{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_LOCATION_REQUEST`, the receiver will reply to the
be:reply_to messenger (that you sent in your
{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_STARTED` message) with a
{cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_EVENT` message, filling in the following fields:

:::{list-table}
---
header-rows: 1
align: left
widths: auto
---
-

	- Entry

	- Type

	- Description

-

	- be:opcode

	- {cpp:enum}`B_INT32_TYPE`

	- Set to {cpp:enum}`B_INPUT_METHOD_LOCATION_REQUEST`.

-

	- be:location_reply

	- {cpp:enum}`B_POINT_TYPE`

	- The co-ordinates of each character (there should be one be:location_reply
for every character in be:string) relative to the display (not your view or
your window).

-

	- be:height_reply

	- {cpp:enum}`B_FLOAT_TYPE`

	- The height of each character in be:string.
:::

## Creating

To create a new input method, you must:

- Create a subclass of {cpp:class}`BInputServerMethod`

- Implement the instantiate_input_method() C function to create an instance
of your {cpp:class}`BInputServerMethod` subclass

- Compile the class and function as an add-on

- Install the add-on in one of the input method directories

At boot time (or whenever the Input Server is restarted; see "Dynamic
Loading"), the Input Server loads the add-ons it finds in the input method
directories. For each add-on it finds, the Server invokes
instantiate_input_method() to get a pointer to the add-on's
{hclass}`BInputServerMethod` object. After constructing the object, the
Server calls {hmethod}`InitCheck()` to give the add-on a chance to bail out
if the constructor failed.

## Installing an Input Method

The input server looks for input methods in the "input_server/methods"
subdirectories of {cpp:enum}`B_BEOS_ADDONS_DIRECTORY`,
{cpp:enum}`B_COMMON_ADDONS_DIRECTORY`, and
{cpp:enum}`B_USER_ADDONS_DIRECTORY`.

- You can install your input devices in the latter two directoriesâ€”i.e.
those under {cpp:enum}`B_COMMON_ADDONS_DIRECTORY`, and
{cpp:enum}`B_USER_ADDONS_DIRECTORY`.

- The {cpp:enum}`B_BEOS_ADDONS_DIRECTORY` is reserved for add-ons that are
supplied by the BeOS.
